>> Brian Holt: So
now that I made you walk through sqlite3,
the base default original sqlite3 client,
I went ahead and
linked to other ones that you can use.
Eventually, hopefully by
the time I do v2 of this course
there's going to be a built-in
sqlite client to node JS.
It's just gonna ship with it starting in
22, and we're in 20 right now, right?
Yes, I think we're in 20 right now.
Yeah, you can see this
is active developments.
You can try it right now I thought
about making you try it, but getting
people to start no 22 with experimental
flags seemed a little dicey to me.
But eventually you're gonna be
able to do things like this,
and it's just gonna look a lot better.
Yeah, you're gonna do a database.prepare.
You're gonna insert all your values into
it and then you can just run the query,
and it makes this like reusable object
that you can run multiple times.
It's a it's a nice way of doing it.
Bun already does this,
if you're familiar with bun,
which is another JavaScript runtime.
I think Denno has their own as well, so
I think that kinda puts some pressure
back onto the Node core team to like,
hey, maybe we should adopt
an internal sqlite client.
They've always kind of had this
thought process on the Node team,
that like, let's the community do it,
let's not prescribe anything.
But this one seems useful to me.
So that eventually will be what
I would suggest all of you use.
If this is available by the time that you
watch this video, use the official Node 1.
>> Brian Holt: The second most popular
as far as I can tell is Better Sqlite3.
I'm not gonna say that
it's necessarily better.
I do use it probably the most.
They purport to be significantly faster.
Sure, it's already fast enough for me.
They had this ability to do the prepare
thing which we were talking about.
You can do pragmas,
as we talked about earlier.
They have a promise library built into it,
so
you can do promises, I think, pretty sure.
And the one thing that SQLite 3, just
the normal one that we were just using,
it doesn't have the ability to do
queries sync, which basically means like
run this and pause the entire runtime
until this is done and then continue.
Usually that's not what you wanna do,
especially if you're
doing like web services.
But if you're just running a script, it
actually is nice like, hey, do this wait,
do this wait, do this wait,
do this wait, and then now you're done.
Better sqlite3 can do that, no problem.
Sqlite 3, just a normal one cannot or
doesn't have a easy way to do that,
I should say Yeah, Promise sqlite3,
I've used this one a couple
of times It really is just the exact
same thing, but they have promises.
It's really just a very thin wrapper
that allows you to do a sync await and
stuff like that.
>> Brian Holt: That's probably a good
time as any for me to talk about ORMs and
my love-hate relationship with them.
My experience is primarily
with old Django ORMs or
specifically, the Django built in ORM back
in 2013 I think when I
was working at Reddit.
It does some things really well for you.
It does data migrations and
some other things.
But it also makes a lot
of things really hard.
And so an ORM, if you're not familiar,
is basically a library that lets it so
you don't write sequel, it does, right?
And so you say, database.createobject
with this information,
and then it generates sequel and
it runs those commands for you.
Ten years ago,
I would have told you never use an ORM,
it's not worth it just learn sequel.
Get good, essentially,
is what I would tell people, skill issue.
I don't think that's true anymore.
I think Prisma and Drizzle and
even sequelae have come a long ways
of making ORMs a much more desirable thing
to use, particularly Prisma and Drizzle.
I haven't used sequalaes in a while, but
I'm told that it's gotten much better over
the years, pleasant experiences and
come recommended from people that I trust.
I'm not gonna talk about them today, cuz
I really couldn't tell you too much about
them, cuz, again,
I've been writing sequels for so
long that I'm just kind of
stuck in my ways at this point.
But you should have a look.
Yeah, and then, in that case,
you wouldn't include any of these.
You would just interact with the ORMs
then query your database for you.
All of these have sqlite clients,
I think I even,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
so this one starts with
SQLite you can see.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so you can see
this one works as well with Turso and
Bun, React Native,
Cloudflare, they all work.
>> Brian Holt: Things to just keep an eye
on with ORMs, like you'll do something
that you find very straightforward and you
think, this should be a nice fast query.
And then you find out that your ORM
is doing something bananas, right?
And that was my experience is like,
they'd run these big weird queries.
And so I'd find myself fighting the ORM,
which defeats the purpose, right?
>> Brian Holt: But they do handle
things like data migrations,
which are very hard to handle yourself.